---
title: Susanne Hochreiter.
team: Comics Research
type: member
route: /team/susanne-hochreiter
image: team/susanne-hochreiter.png
caption: Susanne Hochreiter
email: susanne.hochreiter@univie.ac.at
uni-www: germanistik/susanne-hochreiter
academia: https://univie.academia.edu/SusanneHochreiter
linkedIn: susanne-hochreiter-55728a38
twitter: HochreSu
---

**Susanne Hochreiter** is a co-applicant and team member of the project _Visualities of Gender in German-language Comics_. She studied German Studies and Philosophy, Psychology, and Pedagogy at the University of Vienna and at the FU Berlin. In 2003 she was awarded her PhD for a thesis on gender and space in Franz Kafka’s novel fragments. From 2003 to 2005 and from 2010 to 2012, she attended extra-occupational training in theater pedagogy.

<!-- more -->

She has been working at the Department of German Studies, University of Vienna, since 1999. She was a visiting lecturer in Bern (Switzerland) in 2002, a visiting professor at Wake Forest University in Winston-Salem (NC) in 2006/07, and Max Kade Distinguished Visiting Professor at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign in 2015. From 2001 to 2016 she led a research project on _Discursive Intersections in Literature on Hermaphroditism_ that was supported by the Austrian Science Fund (FWF). Her research interests include modern German and Austrian literature, comics and graphic novels, drama and performance, in each case focusing on Gender and Queer Studies. As an equal opportunity officer, she is involved in the gender equality and antidiscrimination activities at University of Vienna. She is a cofounder of the [Austrian Association for Comics (OeGeC)](https://oegec.com/).
